Adam (Arabic: آدم) was the first human being on Earth and the first nabi (نبي, prophet) of Islam. Muslim's revere Adam as the father of the human race and his wife, Hawwā (حواء, Eve) as the mother of mankind. Muslims see Adam as the first Muslim, as the Quran states that all the Prophets preached the same faith of Islam, which means submission to God.

From these two individuals, generations of human beings have inhabited the earth. God states in the Quran, __"Oh humankind! We created you from a single pair of a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes, so that you may know each other (not that ye may despise each other). Verily the most honored among you in the sight of Allah is the who is the most righteous of you. And Allah has full knowledge and is well acquainted (with all things)" (Quran 49:13).__

When Adam was created, God commanded all of creation to lower themselves as a sign of respect to Adam, which was a new superior creation.  All did except for Shaytan, who refused saying he was made of a smokeless fire (a Jinn), while Adam was made of clay.  God then put them in the Garden of Eden as a test and Shaytan successfully tricked both Adam and Hawwa.  He made them go to a tree that God had forbidden them from.  As a result of this, God has put us (humans and devils) on Earth as enemies of one another until the Day of Judgement.  Once on Earth, Adam prayed for forgiveness and God forgave him.

Like with Adam and all Prophets they came to Earth to remind of of our covenant with God.  If we obey God, we can attain a higher level then the Angels in God's sight.  To do this we must avoid the whispers of Sheytan, and what is even much worse than that, strive and suppress our nuffs (selfish desires).  We do this by following the endless wisdom, directions and examples given to us in the Quran, the final revelation and book written in first person by God that is perfectly preserved and unchanged.  We also must follow the amazing example of the prophets and we have the Prophet Muhammad's full life story as he came in more recent times where he shows up in modern history even.  All of his teachings are also preserved and there is lots of Islamic scholarship to preserve and teach his way of life. The Prophet Muhammad was the Seal of the Prophets, a state, spiritual and military leader along with being a husband, father, neighbor, and friend.  He is highly praised by those that studiy his life, actions and teachings.  Even his enemies when he lived respected and trusted him.

So, as Muslims we know the purpose of life for all humans is to worship God and to see who is best in deeds.  God has promised mankind a beautiful place in Paradise/Heaven as a reward of following his commandments.  The lowest person in Heaven will have the land of ten Earths.  When you get to the higher levels of heaven you need to start measuring your land in light years.  God is the Most Generous and wants to give us and for us to ask of him everything.  If we turn away from God and the ways of the prophets, a severe punishment awaits us in Hell.  May God protect us from this and all evil things.

From a science perspective, humans are in the __Homo Sapiens__ species, of which the only known subspecies is known as __Homo sapiens sapiens__.  We are the most dominant species on Earth.  However, there are many kinds of life, especially among plants and protists, that have had a much greater effect on the air, the rocks, life, and natural environment of Earth.