__The Crusades__ were a series of religious wars fought between Christians and Muslims over control of the Holy Land. Traditionally, they took place between 1095 and 1291. The Holy Land was still is a place that is very important for the three major monotheistic religions: Islam, Judaism, and Christianity. There are many important religious sites in the Holy Land. This is the land now called Israel or Palestine. Jerusalem, Nazareth, Bethlehem, Hebron and other religious sites fell under the control of Muslims during the Caliphate of Omar (RA), the third Caliph and close friend and companion of the Prophet Muhammad (SAW).

There were many different crusades. The most important and biggest __Crusades__ took place from the 11th to 13th century. There were 9 large crusades during this time. There were also many smaller Crusades. Some crusades were even within Europe (for example, in Germany, Austria and Scandinavia). The smaller __Crusades__ continued to the 16th century, until the Renaissance and Reformation.

The word "Crusade" is related to the word "Cross" and means a Christian holy war. There is also the Arabic word "Jihad", which means to strive and struggle by Muslims that can have the same connotation as "Crusade" for Muslims during a time of war. The Prophet (SAW) taught this is the lesser Jihad though and the greater Jihad comes in the battle to live a pious life.

All sides (Christians, Muslims, and Jews) believed very much in their religions. A lot of the crusades often had political or monetary reasons behind them. Like all wars.

It is sad to see hostilities between the three Abrahamic faiths that share so much in common. Muslims consider Jews and Christians as People of the Book, which means they have a special status and closer relationship to Muslims than any other people.  You can see this in the life of the Prophet (SAW) and where he and the companions were saddened by the Byzantine Christian's)loss to the Sassanians in a large battle. This was recorded in hadiths and even spoke about in the Quran. It is also another interesting proof of Islam's authenticity as God revealed a future event that came to pass: __"The Romans have been defeated. In a land close by (Anatolia); but they will soon be victorious within a few years. To Allah belongs the command before and after. And that day the believers will rejoice" (Quran 30:2-4)__

At the time this was revealed, the Arab pagans were on the side of the Pagan Sassanians, while the Arab Muslims were hoping the Christian's won this battle. When the Christians lost the Pagans mocked the Muslims for this loss and saying things like, "Where is your powerful God now?". So God revealed this verse at this moment. Sure enough, in 622 AD at the Battle of Issus, the Byzantines under Emperor Heraclius had a crushing and lasting victory in Anatolia against the Sassanians, thus confirming the Quranic prophecy.