__Charles Darwin__ (1809–1882) his book "On the Origin of Species" in 1859. In it he put forward many theories about how life came to be on Earth. He proposed natural selection, which is a process where animals with certain traits, can survive better as the way how all animals have come into existence. However, Darwin did not understand or know about genetics at the time or how traits were actually passed on. So he could not accurately explain what made children look like their parents.

Nevertheless, __Darwin's__ explanation of evolution is fundamentally accepted by the scientific community and scientists are working hard to try and prove they evolved from single celled organisms and monkeys to this day.  Whereas, Muslims, Christians and Jews believe we are descendants of Adam (SAW) and Hawwa (Eve), the first man and woman.  Scientists refer to such findings as "intelligent design" and there is countless evidence of this, such as how DNA, human body, solar systems, etc. work.

Similar to Darwinism, Islam recognizes the idea that life develops in stages and over a period of time. Also, we believe God has power over all things and can easily change anything to adopt to it's environment.  God created it the first time, the second time would be easier, right?  Just like us being resurrected on the Day of Judgement.

But unlike modern evolutionist theories saying random mutations, which are always disastrous and deadly in nature, cause an animal to evolve, we believe God can change an animal overnight to have a longer beak to find food easier after a flood if it needs to, for example.  This is actually documented on many study of birds adapting traits so fast that scientists can't explain it and are worried other species won't adapt as fast.  This makes more sense then an animal slowly and randomly evolving by chance.  Also, there are cases of new or extinct butterflies miraculously coming out of no where.  Muslims care very much for animals and the environment, but we don't stress about them going extinct or not being able to take care of themselves because like all things, we put our trust in God.

In summary, Muslims reject the idea that human beings randomly evolved from apes. Muslims believe human beings are considered a special creation. Islam teaches that human beings are a unique life form that was created by Allah, like everything else; however, we have unique gifts and abilities unlike any other animal and being. For example, we have an eternal soul, conscience, imagination, knowledge and free will.  We can be strong, good and pious or be weak and work only to fulfill our selfish desires. Regardless, the life of human beings began with the creation of two people, a male and a female named Adam and Hawwa (Eve) and that makes us all related by blood and family.

The Qur'an describes that Allah __"made from water every living thing" (Quran 21:30).__ Another verse describes how __"Allah has created every animal from water. Of them are some that creep on their bellies, some that walk on two legs, and some that walk on four. Allah creates what He wills, for truly Allah has power over all things" (24:45).__

These verses support the scientific theory that life began in the Earth's oceans.