__"This day shall We save you (O Pharaoh) in your body, that you may be a Sign to those who come after you! But indeed, many among mankind are neglectful of Our Signs." (Quran 10:93)__

A __pyramid__ is a structure, usually of stone, built in the shape of a pyramid. From ancient to modern times people in many different parts of the world have built such structures.

The first __pyramids__ were built in 2630 B.C. The oldest known pyramid is in Saqqara, Egypt and was built by King Djoser of the Third Egyptian dynasty.

The Quran talks much about the Egyptian dynasty's in the stories about Musa (AS, Moses) and Yusuf (AS, Joseph).

The Quran accurately describes Egyptian history by referring to the leader of these Egyptian dynasties as a king or a pharaoh (which came later).  A historical fact that was only recently discovered by the British Museum.  According to them, the Egyptians did not call their rulers "Pharaoh" until the 18th Dynasty (1552-1295 BC).

A few verses talking about Musa and Fira'un (Pharaoh):
__"We (Allah) rehearse unto thee a portion of the story of Moses and Pharaoh with truth, for the benefit of a people who would believe. (Quran 28:04).

"We sent Moses with Our Signs to Pharaoh and his chiefs, but they unjustly rejected them. Behold, then, what was the end of those who created disorder! (Quran 7:104)

"This day shall We save you (O Pharaoh) in your body, that you may be a Sign to those who come after you! But indeed, many among mankind are neglectful of Our Signs. (Quran 10:93)__

It is widely believed by historians and Christian and Muslim scholars that Moses interacted with Ramesses II.  Both the Quran and Bible mention this story in detail eventually ending with the Pharaoh being drowned in the Red Sea after Moses, with God's permission, parted the sea.

The Quran's prophecy of __"This day shall We save you (O Pharaoh) in your body, that you may be a Sign to those who come after you!"__ is not found in any other scripture and even historians had no clue of this until recently.  The mummified bodies of all the Pharaohs lay concealed in the Valley of Kings (KV7 & 8) along the banks of the Nile.  Even after their tombs were plundered, the mummified remains of the pharaohs were kept their undiscovered for centuries. Their discovery took place in the 19th century and you can now see, Ramesses II with your own eyes in The Grand Egyptian Museum in Cairo, Egypt.  His body has also gone on several international tours for all to see.  This again, shows how the knowledge in Quran and Islam could have only been given to us by God.

You can also ask Jewish people about their experience with this Pharaoh, and other ancient Egyptian leaders.

__"And We had certainly given Moses nine evident signs, so ask the Children of Israel [about] when he came to them and Pharaoh said to him, "Indeed I think, O Moses, that you are affected by magic." (Quran 17:101)__

The Jewish peoples survival also allows us to ask them about the other signs of God they received, like many miracles and prophets that were sent to them.

__Ask the Children of Israel how many a clear sign We gave them. And whoever exchanges the favour of Allah after it has come to him - then indeed, Allāh is severe in retribution. (Quran 2.211)__